# Acquia D8 Starter Theme
This Drupal 8 theme is constructed as a starter theme with a minimal starting point in mind. Make sure to read thru [our code examples](_docs/README.md) to add in more extensive functionality.  It's intent is to provide the least amount of code to alter to get started, but also including all the necessary set of tools. 
It includes some barebones integration with: 

* Core *.yml and theme dependencies   
* SMACSS folders & files
* Gulp for talk running
* KSS Node for dynamic stylesheet construction 
* Backstopjs for visual regression testing
* Wraith for visual regression testing

## Installation Steps

* Install NVM and install and use Node.js version 0.12.7

    ````
    ./install-node.sh
    ```` 
* Install thunder dependencies

    ````
    cd themes/contrb/thunder
    npm run install-thunder
    ```` 

## Development Steps

After completing the installation steps all the necessary files will be 
downloaded in the `node_modules/` and `bower_components/` folders to run the 
automated tasks. 

To execute a one-time compilation of front end assets, run:

    npm run build

To watch the filesystem for changes and re-compile front end assets each time
that a theme file is modified, run:

    npm run watch

These commands use npm to execute gulp. Configuration for Gulp is in 
**gulpfile.js**. This dictatse the automation is setup for SASS  compiling, 
JS/CSS linting, image compression, and other miscellaneous tasks.

## Primary Files & Folder Structure

The core files are fairly minimal when setting up a new theme. These files are considered as the initial configurable pieces. 

```
Thunder Theme Folder 
|-- bower_components/  (bower modules)
|-- bower.json  (bower config)
|-- css/  (generated css) 
|-- gulpfile.js  (configured gulp file) 
|-- images/  (theme images)
|-- js/  (compiled js)
|-- logo.png
|-- logo.svg
|-- node_modules/  (modules generated by npm)
|-- package.json  (configured to load dependencies by npm)
|-- sass/  (containers basis sass setup)
|-- screenshot.png
|-- templates/  (contains twig files for rendering)
|-- thunder.info.yml
|-- thunder.libraries.yml
|-- thunder.theme

```


## Sass & CSS Files

Setup of the Sass files so that they are properly broken out in partials and according to the [SMACSS](https://smacss.com/) methodologies.

```
Thunder Theme Folder 
|-- sass
  	|-- base/
	|-- layout/
	|-- components/
	|-- state/
  	|-- _config.scss
  	|-- style.scss
```

**base/ partials** :: intended as the baseline styles that you extend upon and will include things like resets, global typography, or common form selectors.

**layout/ partials** :: structural layout that can apply to both the outer containers like the sidebars or headers, but also on inner structual pieces.

**components/ partials** :: these module files are the reusable or component parts of our design.

**state/ partials** :: modules will adjust when in a particular state, in regards to targeting how changes happen on contextual alterations for regions or similar  

**_config.scss** :: this configuration is housing common mixins, variables, or similar, normally you would want to break these out in separate partials

**styles.scss** :: the manifest file that imports all the partials or folders with globbing


### JavaScript Files

The next task is to set up the JS files according to Drupal standards and so they can be compiled. The compiling of the JS happens on file change with the gulp plugin. You will only need to change code within the js-src folder and task running will handle the rest.

```
Thunder Theme Folder 
|-- js-src/
  	|-- theme.js
|-- js/
  	|-- theme.js
```

**js-src/** :: this will contain the original JavaScript before we lint and compile

**theme.js** :: this files is intended to illustrate the Drupal.behaviors() placeholder for future development

<br>
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

## Documentation & Code Examples


* [Code reference for this theme](_docs/README.md)
* [SMACSS methodologies](https://smacss.com/) 
* [Drupal.org Guide for Theming Drupal 8](https://www.drupal.org/theme-guide/8) 
* [Documentation for your THEMENAME.info.yml](https://www.drupal.org/node/2349827)
* [Documentation for your THEMENAME.libraries.yml](https://www.drupal.org/theme-guide/8/assets)
# development-dfs_ny-theme
