#MVP Content Architecture#

##Landing Page
(reference pg 13 of Discovery Document) The Landing Page type is often created as separate from Static Pages in cases where design requirements are higher. This allows static content to remain straightforward (title, image, body fields) while “organizing content types” such as Landing Pages can contain design logic that will likely be more temporary (left rail, slider details, tile constructs, etc.)

###Features

**Frames / Rows:** The primary function of the Landing Page will be to provide content editors with the ability to create and arrange arbitrary design elements or "Frames." During discussions, the module that most closely simulates the desired functionality appears to be the Paragraphs module, but the specific implementation will depend on the final requirements determined for MVP.

* **"Open":** Open content will allow content editors to freely enter Filtered HTML into a block. As discussed in the section "Other Methods of Layout Control," there are a variety of methods for including easy-to-use, easy-to-understand forms to the end user to allow for highly flexible layouts.  In general, the most flexible approach would be to have open content elements simply containing two fields:
		* **Title**
		* **Body**
* **Image / Slideshow**: Each Image may contain additional linking and meta data. Desired effect was the if multiple images / items were added, the frame would be rendered as a slideshow instead.

* **Hero:** Large image with floating text, generally fixed at the top of the page. This could be a frame in itself or alternatively be implemented as fields of the Landing Page Content Type. Additional options could include a link off and placement options for the text.

* **Multi-columns:** The Multi-Column element generally addresses a common request from content editors and designers-- the need for an easy way to split a row into multiple columns that may contain some combination of images, titles, text and links. The specific implementation of this used links / Node References to pull title, teaser and other information from existing content. The alternative, preferred method is to have the title, teaser and image manually entered into the column. This allows for more flexibility for what content can be referenced (internal and external) and also makes fewer assumptions about what the content itself must contain.

* **Views block aggregation:** Landing pages will generally contain listings of News and other content, occasionally by category. The current Governor's site uses a Solr implementation with facet search, however, in many agency sites, this can likely be implemented with a standard Views Block.

## "Inner Page" (Content Type)
(reference pg 13 of Discovery Document) The bulk of information across agencies are presented in "basic" static pages either from static HTML or other CMS's with fairly flat schemas. Further work must be done to better differentiate the types of atomic content, however, this content type can be an interim solution that allows agencies to port existing content while providing structure that can be used for future improvement. Though stored in the database, it is assumed that the bulk of these pages are not changed frequently. This content type would contain information currently found on pages such as “About Our Brand”, “Mission Statements” and the like. This content type will be the primary content type exposed to customers for editing and displayed "as-is" to unauthenticated users. Fields include but may not be limited to:

* Title
* Organization / Agency- A grouping field used for structuring edit and publish permissions
* Audience— An example optional structured category possibly used for targeting content.
* Layout options— (possible) a plain text select list or a taxonomy check list of some sort allowing
content editors to show and hide features that the development team makes available. Common uses are options to add a linked list to the side bar and adding banners, captions or other assets to to various other regions of the rendered page.
* Body text—Full HTML that will need a customized WYSYWYG interface. See Features for MVP WYSIWYG Components

### Features
**Media Embedding:** For MVP, the WYSIWYG will need to support embedding the following assets:

* Image / Gallery: Similar to the framing above, the expectation for UX may be the ability to upload a single or multiple images with rendering changing accordingly.
* Video: Assumption for MVP is the ability to embed YouTube. (See Integrations below.)
* Document / Document List:

**Sub-menu or Table of Contents:** Content editors will need a clear method of organizing and grouping some content together. Sub-menus on the Governor's site are mainly "Jump" menus for a single page. Given the length of some of the materials within agencies, this will be insufficient. A better visual treatment and more intuitive menu construction will be necessary for MVP.

## Documents (Entity)
(reference pg 14-15 in Discover Document) Every agency has a large number of resources, reports, PDF forms and other documents providing information NY State citizens or necessary for them acquire services and other assistance. Additionally, PDFs have been used as a shortcut for some agencies to "put it on the web"-- rather than creating HTML pages that require more developer time or that may be subject to browser inconsistency, some information has been arranged in PDF, Word and other formats and simply uploaded with a link. Possible fields include:

* Title
* Agency (Permission field)
* Type (Category Field)
* Additional Metadata

### Features
**Bulk Upload:** Content editors for agencies generally need the ability to bulk upload or bulk edit sets of Documents on their sites. Beyond the initial migration into the site, these operations are generally significantly time-consuming, but occur at predictable intervals (monthly / quarterly, etc.)

**Reference and display:** Content editors will need to be able to find documents to describe and embed within content. Given the large number of documents some agencies will have, this may require some ability to filter according to type and category or some additional administrative accoutrements.

**Maintaining Links:** If a user uploads a file with a name that already exists in the file system, Drupal will automatically rename the new file using a standard function. However, many government agencies prefer that the old file be renamed so that bookmarks and direct links can be preserved.

## Webform / Feedback

### Features
**Arbitrary routing to specified email addresses:** At base, agencies will need the ability to create arbitrary webforms than can route comments and complaints to the appropriate email addresses.

**Embedding into other pages:** Webforms will need to be provided as a block view that can be used on landing pages and other content.

## News / Press Release
pg 14 Most agencies had some press release content that was either internally generated or referenced material from other sites. Giving a common structure for news releases within the platform will allow data to be more easily shared between groups at a later time.
The following fields appeared to be sufficient for a broad set of use cases for rolling news stories and blogs:
* Title
* Teaser text—Often, content editors will want a more controlled method of shortening the body text for display in sidebars of other pages.
* Body text—Full HTML that will need a customized WYSYWYG interface
* Image (most likely a representative image for the news item, but could accommodate multiple
images for different purposes.)
* Subject Heading (likely a taxonomy term) field
* PDF attachment—in the case of press releases, or brochure information.

### Features
**Aggregation:** On Landing Pages and other areas, News and Press Releases will need a straightforward method of being aggregated and placed for display.


#Integrations Summary and Other Capabilities

The following features and capabilities were discussed during the workshop. A summary of notes is presented below, however, in many cases, further confirmation and discussion may be appropriate.

* Video Support: NY State has several solutions for embedding videos onto pages including YouTube, BrightCove, external media servers and in some cases Livestream. For the near term, YouTube embeds are assumed to be the only capability needed. NY State does not plan to host videos in Site Factory.
* Eloqua Integration: Eloqua is used for collecting email addresses for an external newsletter and email "blast" system. Agency sites are currently not using this system and at the time of writing, the resources purchased for Eloqua was not yet deemed an enterprise-ready solution.
* Mapping: Maps exist on multiple sites. In some cases they exist as a straightforward embed, but in others they may be more integrated with the site's content. For MVP, a more straightforward embedding solution appears to be more appropriate, however, on the sites to be migrated,
* UNav improvement: the original Universal Navigation, did not make use of best Drupal practices. Currently, there are some outstanding issues and it also requires CDN to support all the requests from the state. Rather than a direct integration of the existing UNav in the standard prescribed fashion, the architect suggested a few points of development that may improve the performance and reduce the needed resources:
	* Caching UNav for the Platform
	* Revisiting the Search Implementation
	* Revisiting desired functionality
* Content Sharing between sites:
	* Solr for content sharing between sites:
	* Content hub?
* Other supported integrations:
	* govdelivery
	* page update notification
	* content audit
	* social share
		* global
		* content specific
		* frame specific
  * SSO:

# Additional MVP Requirements
* configuration management
* setup publish workflow
* delayed publishing
* search integration
* admin theme / views / UX

# Considerations Regarding Drupal 8 #

During the workshop, NY State expressed their concern that Drupal 8 had just been released in November and wanted to know the trade-offs for beginning Drupal 8 development vs. Drupal 7 development.  The primary concerns to balance are the aggressive timeline to initial launch versus the need for a long support timeline.

### Advantages
The advantages of using Drupal 8 revolve around development methodology and application capabilities.

* Drupal 8 will provide a much longer window of stability.  Drupal 7 will likely be maintained for many years to come, but new versions of Drupal tend to gain significant momentum in additional capabilities provided by contributed modules after six to eight months of being released.
* Drupal 8 leverages more standard separations of content from configuration. In Drupal 7, solid code deployment requires careful planning and a fair amount of Drupal specific knowledge of deployment. Drupal 8 follows deployment methodologies that developers from other backgrounds (Java, .NET, etc.) are more familiar with. This, in many ways, better protects the platform from development and maintenance hiccups.

### Risks
The major risks of using Drupal 8 revolve around using new open source software.
* The most significant risk and disadvantage of early adoption of Drupal 8 is that **many of the support modules in Drupal 7 have not yet been ported to Drupal 8.** In many sections of this report, common solutions for implementing functionality were described using stable Drupal 7 modules. Where Drupal 8 provided similar functionality, approaches were listed. However, there are two major areas of functionality that NY State will need to consider: Groups Functionality and Content Workflow. Both modules (Organic Groups and Workbench / Workbench Moderation) offer a significant amount of functionality, and have a constellation of support modules to refine their use and experience. Neither yet have a projected release date for Drupal 8 yet.
* Longer timeline of development--because of the lack of expertise and support modules, more time should be budgeted for Drupal 8 web development. Acquia currently estimates at least a 2-2.5X multiplier for development tasks in Drupal 8 as compared to Drupal 7.
* Significant performance gains are generally implemented after launch.
* Security bugs and other issues tend to be shaken out as larger sites and more users migrate to the new version.
* Lack of expertise--during the first months of a release, there tends to be fewer Drupal contractors available for development and professional services.

### Mitigation
For the initial release of application, Acquia strongly suggests limiting scope for groups and workflow functionality to requirements that will provide the most immediate benefit. Caging the requests to a mutually agreed upon list and setting expectations for a scheduled roll-out of new features will be absolutely necessary to ensuring the success of the project.

NY State has some other outstanding questions regarding the security of automated login procedures and requirements around security.  NY State should establish a governance group to make product ownership decisions which can be consulted to define a Minimal Viable Product and prioritize User Stories for iteration purposes.  It will be necessary to more thoroughly delineate requirements before jumping into developing solutions.  Too often, seemingly straightforward solutions need to be rebuilt because of needs that are discovered later in the process.  In cases where time and resources are limited, good planning can save both.

#Additional Content Architecture

# Other Site Notes
